======
Themes
======


The `Theme Manager` is where you can set backgrounds, fonts, and colors to the 
style you desire. From the theme manager you can create a new theme, Edit a 
theme, Delete a theme, Import a theme, and Export a theme.

.. image:: /pics/thememanager1.png

Creating New Themes
===================
Click the :guilabel:`Create Theme Icon` to Create a new theme   

.. image:: /pics/createthemeicon.png 

This will bring up the `Theme Wizard`

.. image:: /pics/themewizardwelcome.png

Click :guilabel:`Next`. You have 3 choices in the drop down menu for Background
type: Solid Color, Gradient, or Image.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard1.png 
 
Solid color: select solid color and click on the black button next to Color. 
You will have the option of choosing among the colors you see or entering your
own.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard2.png

Gradient: choose the two colors, First and Second, you want to fade together 
and the Gradient drop down will let you determine the directions of the fade.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard3.png

Image: Click on the folder to find and select your image. OpenLP accepts a 
variety of image types. 

.. image:: /pics/themewizard4.png

**Note:** If possible, try to use the same size image as your projector is
displaying.

When finished with your selection for background, click the :guilabel:`Next`
button. 

This is the area where you will select and define your font characteristics for 
the Display text.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard5.png

**Font:** Choose the font you would like to use from the drop down.

**Color:** Choose the color of your font.

**Size:** The size of your font determines how many lines are shown per slide.
As you change the font size, the lines per slide will change.

**Line Spacing:** This setting determines how much space you want between
lines. This setting will also change the lines per slide. 

**Outline:** If you desire an outline around your font, select the Outline box,
choose your color and size of the outline.

**Shadow:** If you desire a shadow around your font, select the Shadow box and 
choose your color and size of the shadow.  

**Bold Display:** select the box for Bold font

**Italic Display:** select the box for Italic font

When you are finished selecting your font details click the :guilabel:`Next`
button.

**Footer Area Font Details**

This page determines the Font, Font Color, and size of the font for the footer.
The footer is where the Title of the song, Author or Authors, Copyright and 
CCLI License are displayed.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard6.png

When you are finished setting your footer font details, click :guilabel:`Next`.

**Text Formatting Details**

This page determines the alignment of the text on your slide and the transition 
from one slide to the next. 

.. image:: /pics/themewizard7.png

**Horizontal Align** the text to the Left, Right or Center of the screen.

**Vertical Align** the text to the Top, Middle or bottom of the screen.

**Transitions**

When this box is selected, switching slides will fade out from one and fade in 
to the next. When the box is not selected, slide changing will be instant.

When you are finished setting your Text Formatting Details, click :guilabel:`Next`.

**Output Area Locations**

This page gives you the ability to position your Main area or Footer area to a
specific area of the screen using the x and y positions. ie: if you do not want
your footer on the bottom left, you can make the adjustment here. 
You can resize the Width and the Height of the Main Area and the Footer Area.
ie: If you have a temporary or permanent obstacle in one part of the viewing
area, you can resize the Main or Footer area and use x and y positions to
display in a different position on the screen.

.. image:: /pics/themewizard8.png

You can also change the Width and the Height of the Main Area of the Footer Area.

When you are finished setting your Output Area Locations, click :guilabel:`Next`.

Save and Preview

.. image:: /pics/themewizard9.png

**Theme Name:** Enter your theme name here.

**Preview** 
The Preview shows the choices you made when setting up the previous pages plus, 
shows all the edit effects possible so you can see what the impact is on all 
possible font colors and characteristics.

If you are satisfied with your selections, click :guilabel:`Finish`. If you 
want to make a change, use the :guilabel:`Back` button.

Editing Themes
==============
Now that you created your theme, and you show it on the projector and there is
something you don't like, you can easily Edit your theme either by clicking the
Theme Edit Button:

.. image:: /pics/themeeditbutton.png

Or by right-clicking your theme and selecting the appropriate action.

Deleting Themes
===============

The Delete Button:

.. image:: /pics/songs17.png

will delete a selected theme or by right-clicking your theme and selecting 
the appropriate action.

**Note:** deleting the currently selected global theme or the 
default theme is not possible.

Exporting Themes
================
If you would like to transfer a theme from one computer to another, click on 
the theme you want to Export, click the last button in the Theme Manager:

.. image:: /pics/themeimportexport.png

choose the folder you want to save your theme and click the OK button.

Importing Themes
================

The fourth button in the Theme Manager:

.. image:: /pics/themeimportexport.png

will allow you to Import an Exported theme. Click the Import button, select the
folder and the theme file, and click OK. Your imported theme will be in the 
Theme Manager. Import Theme will also handle version 1 Exports. You will need to
check your imported theme since many of the values will have been defaulted.

Rename Theme
============

If you created a theme and want to change the name of it, right-click your
theme and click Rename theme and enter the new name.

Copy Theme
==========

Now that you created a theme with all the attributes you like, you can
right-click the theme, click on Copy theme, choose your new name and click OK.
You now have a duplicate of your first theme that you can edit the way you want.

Set as Global default
=====================

If you right-click your theme, you have the option to set the theme as Global
default. This option is covered in greater detail under â€œConfigure OpenLP. 
